# Mind

A university has different schools. Each school has several departments. A program can be offered by only one department or more than one department in the school. Each department has lecturers,  a lecturer can only belong to a single department. The department also offers course units. These units may be learnt in one or more programs. More than one lecturer can teach a unit. The unit is like a lesson. Some units have lab sessions. The university has different buildings. A building can have lecture rooms and labs. The labs are of different types, e.g Anatomy lab, computer lab etc. Sessions for A unit with a lab session can only be done in a lab type specified for that unit. The rooms and labs have a maximum capacity.
The program has several cohorts, eg Year 1 Semester 1, Year 3 Semester 2. Units to be taught are assigned to a cohort and the lecturer to teach the unit is also allocated to the cohort. Eg Dr. Mark will teach Year 2 Semester 1 the unit COMP 220. When a cohort is assigned units, the units are assigned to a timetable. The timetable has a day and time for each unit. The timetable is generated by the system. Some cohorts have many students and cannot be taught in one room. The cohort is divided into groups. Each group has a maximum number of students. The groups are assigned to a room. The room has a maximum capacity.
In timetable generation, a lecturer cannot teach two classes at the same time. A student cannot have two lessons at the same time. Some lecturers are part timers and are available only in specific days. All the days of the week should be evenly covered by the timetable. A unit has specified lecture hours that need to be covered in a single session and only once a week. the lab sessions should also be covered in a single session and only once a week. There are some cohorts that have lab sessions which alternate weekly, eg, year 3 sem 2 students can have the lab session for unit a this week and next week do for unit b. The timetable should be able to handle this.
Lecturers have preferences on what time and days they are available to teach. some cohorts have special activities that cover an entire day of the week. For instance, year 1 sem 1 students have ward rounds that take a whole day. Another example is that year 3 sem 2 students have a whole day of ward rounds. These ward rounds are done in the same facility. The timetable should assign days in that ony a single cohort can have ward rounds in a particular day without causing clashes.
The timetable should be able to handle the following constraints:

- A lecturer cannot teach two classes at the same time.
  - A student cannot have two lessons at the same time.
  - Some lecturers are part timers and are available only in specific days.
  - All the days of the week should be evenly covered by the timetable.
  - A unit has specified lecture hours that need to be covered in a single session and only once a week.
  - the lab sessions should also be covered in a single session and only once a week.
  - There are some cohorts that have lab sessions which alternate weekly, eg, year 3 sem 2 students can have the lab session for unit a this week and next week do for unit b. The timetable should be able to handle this.
  - Lecturers have preferences on what time and days they are available to teach.
  - some cohorts have special activities that cover an entire day of the week. For instance, year 1 sem 1 students have ward rounds that take a whole day. Another example is that year 3 sem 2 students have a whole day of ward rounds. These ward rounds are done in the same facility. The timetable should assign days in that ony a single cohort can have ward rounds in a particular day without causing clashes.
  - A cohort cannot have two units at the same time.
  - A cohort cannot have two lab sessions at the same time.
  - A cohort cannot have a lab session and a lecture session at the same time.
  - A cohort can only have a single ward round.
  - Lectures begin at 7:00 am and end at 6:00 pm.
  - A cohort cannot have a lecture session before 7:00 am or after 6:00 pm.
  - If a cohort has s ward round, the ward round should be in the timetable to cover the entire day.
  - A cohort cannot have a lecture session and a ward round on the same day.
  - A cohort cannot have a lab session and a ward round on the same day.
  - A cohort cannot have more than 3 lecture sessions in a day.
  - A cohort cannot have more than 2 lab sessions in a day.
Define the logic for creating such a timetabling system

## Entities

- Periods
  On school creation, define the periods of the day. Eg 2 hours or 3 hours. This will be used to define the length of a lecture session or lab session.
  On unit creation, define the number of hours a unit takes in a single session. Eg 2 hours or 3 hours. This will be used to define the length of a lecture session or lab session. Some units have lab sessions. The lab sessions are also defined in hours. Eg 2 hours or 3 hours. Setting the hours as 0 for a lecture session means that the unit spans the entire day. Setting the hours as 0 for a lab session means that the lab session does not exist.
- Units
  A unit is a lesson. It is taught by a lecturer. A unit can be taught in one or more programs. Some units have pre-defined  locations. Some units are not groupable. Eg For the unit WardRound, if a cohort lets say Year 3 Sem 1 has 120 students, the cohort cannot be divided into groups. The entire cohort will have the ward round at the same time. For the unit Anatomy310, if a cohort lets say Year 3 Sem 1 has 120 students, the cohort can be divided into groups, groups A and B. Group A will have the lab session at a different time from group B. The unit has a number of hours that it takes in a single session. Eg 2 hours or 3 hours. Some units have lab sessions. The lab sessions are also defined in hours. Eg 2 hours or 3 hours. Setting the hours as 0 for a lecture session means that the unit spans the entire day. Setting the hours as 0 for a lab session means that the lab session does not exist.

- lunch break algorithm.
  The lunch break algorithm is used to determine the time to have lunch. The algorithm is as follows:
  - Check the period_length
  - Check the max number of lecture sessions in a day by getting the end_time - start_time / period_length
  - if the max number of lecture sessions in a day has a remainder, then the lunch break is the remainder * period_length
  - if the max number of lecture sessions in a day has no remainder, then theis no lunch break
  - the lunch break starts at 13:00, so the lunch break is 13:00 + lunch_break.
  - don't add the lunch break as a school period, instead push the starttime of the next period to the end of the lunch break.
  - if the lunch break is 0, then the lunch break is not added as a school period and the next period starts at the end of the previous period.
  